Let's talk next about component authoring.
Component authoring is pretty big cuz
obviously, the way you write code and
Solid even if the components don't
have much of a runtime impact,
they are everywhere, right?
That's where you're gonna
spend most of your time.
So again, this kinda gets us
back to what is a component.
And in the same way that reactivities
loses a bit of meaning here,
I have to admit in Solid, it does too.
I mentioned this before, I wasn't
expecting to mention it so early, but
a component is basically an untrack call.
That's essentially all it is.
We call a function with untrack
to isolate its context.
That is basically all it is.
I'd say in your head just
pretend it's a function.
And again, it's all about the props.
So this has some implications though,
because sure,
this is fine when you interact with
the props, you just read them and
it doesn't matter if it's reactive or
not, it works the same way.
However, what if we want to do
some fun stuff like merge them and
spread them and
destructure them and stuff?
And this is where things
get a little bit more fun.
So we actually have a couple helper
functions to handle with that.
Spreads and stuff in the JSX are all
handled for you automatically.
But if you're gonna be like merging props
together, setting default props, and
whatnot, you have to do it in a way
that doesn't lose reactivity.
We haven't brought it up
to this point now, but
it might be obvious to you if you
consider that a component's untracked.
Is that if you destructure at
the top of your component,
you are accessing the variables at that
point, it is not under an effect, right?
So reactive frameworks,
whether they're Vue or Solid or
whatever, you lose reactivity
if you destructure props.
This is our hooks rule, this is the rule
that everyone trips on at least once,
probably multiple times because
even though they're aware of it,
it's like a force of habit.
So big thing is destructuring
technically is fine if you're in
a point that is being read
like that is reactive.
But the top your component is never that.
So destructuring props is something
that we do not do generally.
So yeah, we'll look at a couple
of examples of how to use
these APIs essentially.
So first thing props.children
already introduced,
this is the generic prop that works for
any open close tags.
MergeProps is how we keep reactivity
while merging the props together, so
if you have multiple
objects you wanna merge.
SplitProps is how we maybe we get some
props and send some to a children and
some that you use locally,
we can split those objects across.
And then children is very similar to
if you'd use React's Children,
where it resolves all the children and
gives you kind of like a ability to
do introspection and look at them.
Because in reactivity,
you might have a lot of reactive
things going under the hood,
you might be returning functions and
return functions and do a bunch of stuff.
And children will give you
the actual DOM nodes underneath.
So it returns basically a derivation
that you can reactively introspect.
The other thing we have, I'm gonna call
them lifecycle functions, but that's
a little bit of a cheat because everything
in Solid runs off the reactive system.
So these are more for
convenience than anything.
OnMount is literally create
effect with untrack on it.
If you have an effect with an empty
dependency array essentially.
OnCleanup registers with that cleanup
function that we wrote earlier,
so that anything you write, if the parent
effect reruns, it'll run your function.
So it's a custom way to register cleanup.
And this is really powerful because it
means onCleanup can be written inside
effects, outside effects.
It's the same mechanism regardless of
where you register these cleanup methods.